# Making basic blocks

The keyword `class` means that we are creating a new class. By extending the `Block` class, our `CopperBlock` class will inherit all of the attributes of the existing `Block` class. We call `Block` the _parent class_ of `CopperBlock`, while `CopperBlock` is the _child class_ of `Block`.

An error will come up regarding a missing _constructor_. A constructor is a function that runs whenever a new block is created in the game. The following constructor should go inside the braces of the `CopperBlock` class. If your cursor is over `CopperBlock`, you should be able to press Alt-Enter and select `Add missing constructor`. Then change the name of the `Material` parameter to `mat` and fill in the rest of the constructor.

```java
package com.example.coppermod;

import net.minecraft.block.Block;
import net.minecraft.block.material.Material;
import net.minecraft.creativetab.CreativeTabs;

public class CopperBlock extends Block
{
    protected CopperBlock(Material mat) {
        super(mat);
        this.setBlockName("copper_block");
        this.setHardness(5.0F);
        this.setStepSound(Block.soundTypeMetal);
        this.setCreativeTab(CreativeTabs.tabBlock);
        this.setBlockTextureName("coppermod:copper_block");
        this.setHarvestLevel("pickaxe", 2);
    }
}
```

`super` calls the constructor of `CopperBlock`'s parent class, `Block`. It's very important, but we mainly want to focus on the rest of the functions since they allow more customization! Each of them defines an attribute of our `CopperBlock` block, most of which should be obvious from the name. For example, `setStepSound` determines which sound the block will make when placed. `setHarvestLevel` determines what type and level of tool is required to successfully mine it (the number `2` means iron tools are required). The keyword `this` means that the function is part of the class whose constructor you're currently in, `CopperBlock` in this case (don't worry about this too much, either).