
# Making new tools

## Custom ToolMaterial

First, we should go ahead and make our own `ToolMaterial`. A `ToolMaterial` is an object that holds all of the information about a material that can be made into tools. Minecraft already has them for materials such as wood and iron, but we need to make one for copper. We use the `EnumHelper` class to actually create our new material variable (this variable declaration goes in our main mod class).

```java
public static final Item.ToolMaterial COPPER = EnumHelper.addToolMaterial("copper_tool", 2,
            150, 5.0F, 7.0F, 21); //Harvest level, durability, block damage, entity damage, enchantability
```

Note that the `addToolMaterial` method takes a total of six arguments. The first argument is a string that will be registered as the name of our material. The other five arguments are numbers that determine attributes of the material:  

* Harvest level (0-3): Determines what types of blocks the tools can break properly (0 is wood, 3 is diamond).  
* Durability (Diamond = 1562): The number of uses before the tool breaks.  
* Block and Entity damages: Determine how much damage the tool material does to blocks and entities, respectively (these arguments are floats).  
* Enchantability (Gold Armor = 25): How well a tool can be enchanted (higher number means better enchantments at lower levels).  

Since we've made `COPPER` a static variable, we can later refer to it as `CopperMod.COPPER` for registering our tools with the game. Generally, `final` variables are in all-caps, therefore we call our `final` variable `COPPER`.